All right, time for a quick win, I think.
We all need a few more W's in the day,
right?
So our mission, should we choose to
accept it, is to have a dialogue.
I don't mean just a chat,
although we will be chatting,
of course,
with each other about dialogues.
But dialogues in the web [LAUGH] world,
in HTML,
are a way that we can essentially
create kind of sub [LAUGH] not windows,
but sub interfaces,
not in the object oriented sense,
but in the user interface sense.
Which, for example, we've all seen
a million times, the little thing pops up,
the rest of the background is blurred,
and we have to say no, thank you,
I don't wanna subscribe to your
newsletter, or whatever it is, right?
We've been there, and
now we make it our mission to do that so
that other people can
have that experience.
No, but dialogues are very useful for
a lot of things.
And they come in two varieties,
modal and non-modal.
If there is a fancier word for non-modal,
please let me know, cuz I don't know.
But [LAUGH] so a modal dialog is
that kind that I just mentioned,
where nothing else on the page works until
you have dismissed the dialogue, yeah?
>> A nodal, if you will.
>> A nodal?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Amodal, [LAUGH] I don't know,
like it, exactly.
A nodal, okay, [LAUGH] love it.
So we are given in JavaScript
a nice interface for
talking to dialogue elements.
So HTML dialogue element would be the type
of HTML element that we get back from,
let's say, running this query selector
that's looking for the dialogue tag.
And pretend, in our page,
we just have that one.
And if we call.show,
what we get is a non-modal dialogue,
which means you can still do all the other
stuff on the page that you wanna do,
but this thing is sort of popped up.
So maybe like a little, these days, it
seems to be all AI chat boxes or whatever.
[LAUGH] But modals, again, where we say,
okay, right now you're in this land
of this little dialogue where we need you
to make some decisions or do something.
Or maybe you just really wanna read the
privacy policy or whatever it is, right?
So we have two methods on dialog elements.
There's a show for the amodal nodals,
the non-modal [LAUGH] dialogs, and
a show modal for, shockingly,
the modal dialogs.
All right, so, this is essentially
[LAUGH] what users experience
when we've called showModal and
your user wants to click on something.
The page is Marge Simpson saying,
but we've opened up a dialogue,
you can't click on the other stuff.
So this is just a note about different
ways to interact with dialogues.
But in this case,
we're gonna be focusing on modals.
And our mission,
should we choose to accept it,
is to use our newfound classy
JavaScript to basically take that
dark mode toggle that we built earlier and
turn it into a modal dialogue.
So a settings panel, something like that,
which then we can open as a modal and
change our dark mode there.
And the nice thing about
dialog element is,
if you have a form inside of your dialog,
then when the form is submitted,
or you can also call.close
on the dialog element.
But even automatically, even without
in your JavaScript calling .close,
which is sort of the counterpart
to .show or showModal.
Once this form is submitted, so
once someone clicks the submit button,
the browser will close the dialog for you.
So thanks, browser, for all you do for us.
All right, so
we're gonna start essentially
with where we left off with our dark mode,
and
we are going to turn it
into dark-modal [LAUGH].
So this is where we left off.
We have this amazing
feat of engineering where
we now are able to look
at websites in dark mode.
And is it just me, or
every app, when they're like,
we have dark mode now, it gets so excited.
Google Maps, just today,
was like, I have dark mode.
So we should be excited too cuz from
the get-go, we've had dark mode.
We've had it before it was cool.
Well, not really, but [LAUGH].
So, anyway, we're gonna start here, and
you can start from your
own finished version.
There's also, you can find this
darkmodal/index.html file,
and download that.
And if you look at this,
well, if you run it, you'll notice
you get some errors in your console.
Making sure you haven't disabled
the [LAUGH] error logging.
And these are some errors
complaining about,
the form constructor's not implemented,
the modal constructor's not implemented,
and the render method is not implemented.
So what's going on here is I've kind of
started us out with, that's not helpful.
So this is essentially the same as our
finished dark mode, /index.html.
We've got basically the same HTML and
the same theme.js script.
I've called it theme.js for
reasons that will become clearer later.
[LAUGH] And we've got that toggled,
all set up, and
all taken care of here,
same as before, that's not new.
However, now I've sort of kicked
us off with a little helper, but
feel free to re-implement this on your
own from your finished dark mode file.
I'm setting us up with
a couple of classes.
So we're gonna want a Form class.
We've got a Form class that
essentially is going to construct for
us the type of dialog form that we
would have within our dialog element,
which then can be submitted to close
the dialog, and so on and so forth.
And it can contain whatever
controls we want the user to have.
So whatever inputs,
like our input checkbox.
So this form class is essentially gonna
create objects that
represent this HTML form.
And do the interaction with the DOM
that we need to do, like creating
a form element, maybe giving it a heading,
creating a close button, etc.
And the constructor should accept
a type for the form, a title,
which is just gonna be in this heading,
and an element with the contents,
whatever else should be
children of the form.
Your job is to implement that
constructor to satisfy that API.
And that class is gonna be
instantiated by another class
that we need to work on,
which is the modal class.
So let's read through this, and
this is just to accelerate us a little
bit, get us going a little bit.
We have a modal class
that's similar to the form
class is going to do the DOM stuff for us.
But this is gonna be responsible for
actually creating the dialogue and
for making sure that we show
it in the modal version.
So started us off with a couple of
properties that we're gonna have,
like we're gonna have
a new button element.
We're gonna have a dialogue element.
And the constructor is going to
accept a name for this modal,
a parent element that's going to be
where it's kind of contained, and
a content element that's gonna
be whatever is inside of it.
And so, in the constructor,
we have some work to do.
But what I've already set up for
you is an internal private
method that is using this Form class,
which again,
needs to be implemented,
to essentially create the Form element
with whatever contents you passed
in to the constructor of the modal.
So this is all just in
the interest of jumpstarting, but
I do recommend after we do this,
if you'd like to on your own,
start from scratch,
start with dark mode/index.html.
And try to elaborate your own interface,
when I say interface,
your own sort of API for dealing with
these modal and form objects, or
create maybe different objects.
It is essentially,
now we're in the world of just high-level,
how do we want users to be able to
program with this nice developer API
that we're exposing
through our modal objects?
And so do feel free to redo
this with your own ideas, but
just to get us going and
to make the win a little quicker.
We're also going to have
a render method on the modal,
which is going to actually
attach all these little elements
that we've been creating that
are all nicely encapsulated in
these objects to the DOM and
put them actually into the page.
So the idea is that, pretend we've gotten
this edict from on high
from our boss that we
need the modal object to work like this.
There's gonna be some parent.
In this case, it's gonna be the nav of our
page, just from how it was set up before.
There's gonna be some content.
And in this case, we're grabbing
the dark-mode [LAUGH] label,
which is gonna be our content.
But you know what, rename things,
do whatever you need to do.
But the idea is, whatever,
we have some content.
In this case, it's gonna be
the toggle that we already set up.
And, you know what?
Is this where?
No, okay.
What's going on?
Then, importantly, we want our users
to be able to call a new modal,
pass in whatever name they want,
settings in this case,
pass in whatever parent where they
want this dialogue to live within.
And pass in whatever content they
want to be inside of the form, and
be able to render that modal
with two lines of code, right?
So we wanna do all of the work for
our users, other devs, perhaps, or
ourselves in the future, or
our teammate that works on a different
part of the project or what have you.
We want to make their life a super easy,
lovely situation by giving
them these nice form and
modal objects that they can
use to not have to worry
about all of this appending children, etc.
Okay, so
this is the sort of starting point.
Have at it, try to implement
these missing constructors and
methods, and we will regroup and
see what we have found.